keyboards/sofle/readme.md, before:

# Sofle Keyboard

![SofleKeyboard version 1](https://i.imgur.com/S5GTKth.jpeg)

Sofle is 6×4+5 keys column-staggered split keyboard. Based on Lily58, Corne and Helix keyboards.

More details about the keyboard on my blog: [Let me introduce you SofleKeyboard - a split keyboard based on Lily58 and Crkbd](https://josef-adamcik.cz/electronics/let-me-introduce-you-sofle-keyboard-split-keyboard-based-on-lily58.html)

The current (temporary) build guide and a build log is available here: [SofleKeyboard build log/guide](https://josef-adamcik.cz/electronics/soflekeyboard-build-log-and-build-guide.html)

* Keyboard Maintainer: [Josef Adamcik](https://josef-adamcik.cz) [Twitter:@josefadamcik](https://twitter.com/josefadamcik)  
* Hardware Supported: SofleKeyboard PCB, ProMicro  
* Hardware Availability: [PCB & Case Data](https://github.com/josefadamcik/SofleKeyboard)

Make example for this keyboard (after setting up your build environment):

    make sofle:default

Flash the default keymap: 

    make sofle:default:avrdude

Press reset button on he keyboard when asked.

Disconnect the first half, connect the second one and repeat the process.

See the [build environment setup](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools) and the [make instructions](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_make_guide) for more information. Brand new to QMK? Start with our [Complete Newbs Guide](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/newbs).

Commit message:

Remove Sofle `rgb_default` keymap & tidy readme's (#25010)

keyboards/sofle/readme.md, after:

# Sofle Keyboard

![SofleKeyboard version 1](https://i.imgur.com/S5GTKth.jpeg)

Sofle is 6×4+5 keys column-staggered split keyboard. Based on Lily58, Corne and Helix keyboards.

More details about the keyboard and build guides can be found here: [Sofle Keyboard Build Log and Guide](https://josefadamcik.github.io/SofleKeyboard)

* Keyboard Maintainer: [Josef Adamcik](https://josef-adamcik.cz) [Twitter:@josefadamcik](https://twitter.com/josefadamcik)  
* Hardware Supported: SofleKeyboard PCB, ProMicro  
* Hardware Availability: [PCB & Case Data](https://github.com/josefadamcik/SofleKeyboard)

## Firmware Revisions
- `sofle/rev1` is used for v1, v2, and RGB PCBs (**NOT** RGB PCBs purchased from [Keyhive](https://keyhive.xyz))
- `sofle/keyhive` is used for PCBs purchased from [Keyhive](https://keyhive.xyz/shop/sofle)
- [`keyboards/sofle_choc`](../sofle_choc/) is used for Choc PCBs

Make example for this keyboard (after setting up your build environment):

    make sofle/rev1:default
    make sofle/keyhive:default

Flashing example for this keyboard:

    make sofle/rev1:default:flash
    make sofle/keyhive:default:flash

Press reset button on he keyboard when asked.

Disconnect the first half, connect the second one and repeat the process.

See the [build environment setup](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools) and the [make instructions](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_make_guide) for more information. Brand new to QMK? Start with our [Complete Newbs Guide](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/newbs).

## Bootloader

Enter the bootloader in 3 ways:

* **Bootmagic reset**: Hold down the key at (0,0) in the matrix
* **Physical reset button**: Briefly press the button near the TRRS connector. Quickly double-tap if you are using Pro Micro.
* **Keycode in layout**: Press the key mapped to `QK_BOOT` if it is available
