keyboards/novelkeys/nk65/v1_4/readme.md, before:

NK65 V1.4
=========

![NK65](https://i.imgur.com/EXNbVpL.jpg)

NOTE: Please use this directory only if you have revision 1.4 PCB or later.

This is a standard fixed layout 65% PCB. It supports VIA and full per-key RGB.

Keyboard Maintainer: [Yiancar](http://yiancar-designs.com/) and on [GitHub](https://github.com/yiancar)   
Hardware Supported: A 65% keyboard with STM32F303CC   
Hardware Availability: https://novelkeys.xyz/   

Due to the RGB implementation, the NK65 is currently not compatible with community layouts.

## Instructions

### Build

Make example for this keyboard (after setting up your build environment):

    make nk65/v1_4:via

See the [build environment setup](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools) and the [make instructions](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_make_guide) for more information. Brand new to QMK? Start with our [Complete Newbs Guide](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/newbs).

### Reset

- Unplug
- Hold Escape
- Plug In
- Unplug
- Release Escape

### Flash

- Unplug
- Hold Escape
- Plug In
- Flash using QMK Toolbox or dfu-util (`make nk65/v1_4:<keymap>:dfu-util`)

Commit message:

Convert `novelkeys/nk65` to use RGB Matrix (#25450)

keyboards/novelkeys/nk65/v1_4/readme.md, after:

# NK65 V1.4

![NK65](https://i.imgur.com/EXNbVpL.jpg)

> NOTE: Please use this directory only if you have revision 1.4 PCB or later.

This is a standard fixed layout 65% PCB. It supports VIA and full per-key RGB.

* Keyboard Maintainer: [Yiancar](http://yiancar-designs.com/) and on [GitHub](https://github.com/yiancar)
* Hardware Supported: A 65% keyboard with STM32F303CC
* Hardware Availability: https://novelkeys.xyz/

Make example for this keyboard (after setting up your build environment):

    make novelkeys/nk65/v1_4:default

Flashing example for this keyboard:

    make novelkeys/nk65/v1_4:default:flash

See the [build environment setup](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools) and the [make instructions](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_make_guide) for more information. Brand new to QMK? Start with our [Complete Newbs Guide](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/newbs).

## Bootloader

Enter the bootloader in 3 ways:

* **Bootmagic reset**: Hold down the top left key and plug in the keyboard
* **Physical reset button**: Briefly press the button on the back of the PCB
* **Keycode in layout**: Press the key mapped to `QK_BOOT` if it is available
